Today we will learn how to analyze
a company from the perspective
of asset rotation.
I think it is very enriching because
it will help us understand a lot
of things.
The rotation is very much related
to the volume of investment that
we have to make, it is very
related to profitability.
We will see.
What is the rotating of the
asset?
It is the number of times throughout
the year or period that
we consider that asset, that
investment we have made,
becomes sales.
Does it have a significant
impact on profitability?
Think so.
We have two companies that
we have invested in.
The asset is the same amount.
The one with a higher rotation will
generate more sales.
The profitability will be greater.
Let us think of it differently.
As we compare two companies,
one has a larger rotation than
the other.
In the case of a higher turnover of
the asset, the investment we will
have to make is lower.
In any case, the profitability
will be higher.
Why is it interesting to measure
the rotation of the asset, as well
as because it has a huge
impact on profitability?
Because it allows us to
draw conclusions about how the
managers of the company are
using, whether they are using more
efficiently or not, the investments
they have made.
It is an indicator of how
the company is managed.
Now let's see how we can calculate
the rotation of assets.
Always look at financial
statements.
We need to go to the financial
statements to get the information.
Now, back to the situation balance.
Remember, in the balance sheet,
in the block on the left,
it tells us where we have invested,
what are the assets
we have.
And within the balance sheet
we have assets that are non-
current assets, which are immobilized,
and we have current assets, which
are assets that have a higher liquidity
and that will become treasury
in a period of less than one
year.
We can calculate rotation
in many ways, but I propose
two mainly.
What we can do is calculate the
rotation of the entire asset.
And how do we do it?
very simple though.
What we do is divide the total
sales of a year, for example,
between the total asset.
What does this ratio tell us?
It tells us about the number of times
over a year that the asset is
converted into sales.
Imagine that we have a gym and we
have an asset of one million
euros.
Sales are one million euros.
The rotation is equal to one.
It is just an example.
Also what we can do is, instead
of considering the total asset,
we can calculate the rotation
of stocks.
Remember that inventories, inventories,
are the part within the current
asset that is most related
to the production process.
This is the game that should
be continuously rotating.
How will we calculate the rotation
of stocks?
For what we do is divide, in this
case, instead of dividing sales
on the numerator, what we
will do is calculate or
consider the cost of
the goods sold.
Not at the price we sell
it, but at the price we
have it accounted for.
And in the denominator we
will not divide the total
of the asset, what we will
do is divide only between
the stock or inventory.
What will this inform us?
For the same as before, it will
inform us over a year how many
times they have rotated, what
is the speed with
which we get those stocks
to become sales, they will
generate us income.
And here the question is, when is
it meaningful to use one ratio and
when is it meaningful to use another?
And for this there is no objective
answer, but I want you to understand
that we could mainly
classify industries,
sectors or business
models into two.
Although things are not white and black,
but you have to understand the
concept.
We could in one extreme classify
business models that require
high investments in immovable.
By the way, I want to incorporate a
concept here that is CAPEX, which is
Capital Spenditure, which you have to
know because it is very common.
We'll think of industries that
require high investments in immovable.
That is, that of the total of
its assets a large part is immobilized.
Almost all are non-current active.
And they are also industries
that usually have huge
assets.
For example, a shipyard
or a nuclear cell or a nightclub.
And now let's think of
different industries in which if
we analyze the asset
mainly its asset will be current
assets.
Current assets and usually
mainly stocks.
We can think of business as a
cellar in which it has a huge
amount of inventory that is wine
during the production process.
We can think of commercial
business of buying-selling goods.
You can think of a food store.
You can think of a jewelry, for example.
I am sure many of you come to mind.
Well, because in where a large
part of the asset is non-current
assets, CAPEX, I think it makes
more sense to directly
calculate the rotation
of the total asset.
Because the rotation of
stocks in these cases is less
representative.
And if we think of the that mainly
the investment is OPEX, current
assets, stocks, it would
make sense to calculate the
rotation of the entire asset
but we cannot lose the perspective
of the rotation of stocks
because it is absolutely
determining.